Project section (#1)
cheryllium/easy-html-css: _lessons/17-adding-placeholder-text.md

---
title: Adding Placeholder Text
lesson: 17
layout: default
---

Now, we are ready to begin filling in the layout with some placeholder text. First, let's add some headings to the header. In the last section, we learned that the tags `h1` through `h6` are used for headings. We'll use `h1` for the biggest title, and `h2` for a subtitle. 

```
<div id="header">
  <h1>My First Webpage</h1>
  <h2>My Web Development Journey Begins</h2>
</div>
```

> Next, let's add a few fake links to the sidebar using the `a` tag, which stands for anchor tag. Eventually, we can use these to link to more pages in our website, or other sites we like. For now, they will be placeholders so that we can style them. 
> 
> The `href` attribute is used to specify which URL it links to. It's important to set this to something in our placeholders, because links that don't go anywhere will actually look different on the page. We want to see what links that go somewhere look like. 

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Next, let's add a few fake links to the sidebar using the `a` tag, which stands for "anchor" tag. Eventually, we can use these to link to more pages in our website, or other sites we like. For now, they will be placeholders so that we can style them. 

Recall that, to use the `a` tag, we need to give it a special attribute called `href`. For example:
```
<a href="URL goes here">This text will show up as a link on the page.</a>
```

The `href` attribute is used to specify which URL the `a` tag links to. It's important to set this to something in our placeholders, because links that don't go anywhere will actually look different on the page. We want to see what links that go somewhere look like. 
````

Since these are placeholders, one trick we can do is to set these to `"#"`, which is a way of linking to the current page. 

```
<div id="sidebar">
  <a href="#">Link One</a>
  <a href="#">Link Two</a>
  <a href="#">Link Three</a>
</div>
```

> Next up is our content, which we can fill in with Lorem Ipsum text. There are many Lorem Ipsum generators online, and if you want to have some fun with it, there are even themed ones online that generate text about cupcakes, zombies, bacon and more. For this example, I'll just use the standard [Lorem Ipsum Generator](https://www.lipsum.com/) to generate 3 paragraphs of text.

Reviewer: Believe it or not, a lot of people don't actually know what "Lorem Ipsum" is.
```suggestion
Next up is our content, which we can fill in with placeholder text. The standard text that most people use for placeholder purposes is called "Lorem Ipsum", which is basically just a bunch of fake Latin that looks like it might be real text, but doesn't actually mean anything. There are many Lorem Ipsum generators online, and if you want to have some fun with it, there are even themed ones online that generate text about cupcakes, zombies, bacon and more. For this example, I'll just use the standard [Lorem Ipsum Generator](https://www.lipsum.com/) to generate 3 paragraphs of fake text.
```

```
a {
  display: block; 
}
```

Now, our links will each take up their own row. 

<div class="screenshot">
    <img src="/assets/ch17_5.png" />
</div>

### Selecting Only Sidebar Links

There is one problem with the code we just added: since it will apply to every `a` tag on the page, it will apply to links in the content as well, not just the sidebar! Let's try adding a link to the content just to see: 

```
<div id="content">
  <p>Here is a <a href="#">link inside of my content text</a> to see what happens.</p>
  <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscin gelit. [...and so on]
</div>
```

Uh oh - this doesn't look right. The link is showing up on its own line, instead of in line with the text.

<div class="screenshot">
  <img src="/assets/ch17_6.png" />
</div>

We need a way to apply our CSS to *just* the `a` tags in the sidebar, not on the entire page. It's time to introduce the word *CSS selector.*

A CSS selector is the part of the CSS that we've been writing *before* the curly braces, to tell the CSS what elements to apply our rules to. 

```
SELECTOR {
  PROPERTY: VALUE;
}

> ```

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is the right place to be introducing fundamental terminology. The introduction of the word "**selector**" should probably go along with the introductions of the terms "**property**" and "**value**" in Lesson 8, since all three of those words are IMO of the same level of importance.

So far, our selectors have been simple tags (such as `div`) or elements with IDs (such as `#header`). However, selectors can be more complex than that. CSS understands all sorts of special syntax that allows you to be more specific about what you select on the page. 

> One syntax is this: `#sidebar a`. Yes, there is a space in between them, but this is a single selector! It's just composed of two selectors, `#sidebar` and `a`. When you put a *space* in between two selectors like this, it forms a new selector that selects all of the second thing that's inside the first. `#sidebar a` means, "select every `a` that is inside of `#sidebar`". It's as simple as that!

Reviewer: You should emphasize that there is *no comma* between them, since you've already introduced the comma-separated selector syntax previously.
